Josh Terry
CS 4590
19 July 2018

Homework writeup

The user interface of my design is fairly streamlined in a top-down, left-to-right fashion. The 4 buttons to the left control the context of the application, one of which may be activated during a time. Next, the user may select which notifications to fire via the 5 toggles near the top-center of the interface. Then the user may select one of the 3 event streams and manipulate the volume of the context and notifications, then press the play notifications button to begin sonification of data.
For the sonification of data, I generally avoid TTS due to its invasive nature, so I opted to not implement it. Everything else will be sonified through earcons (such as beeps to convey texts and emails) and auditory icons (such as bird chirps to convey tweets).
To the right are the battery and signal indicators, which may be manipulated to create a different waveform that will play for an amount of time determined by the signal bar when the user presses the play status update button. The battery level affects a higher frequency noise, and the signal level affects a lower frequency noise as well as the duration of the sound. A longer, higher pitched noise means that the phone has a high battery level and strong signal, whereas a quick, lower pitched noise means that the phone is low on battery and has a weak signal.
About priority of notifications: generally, people do not leave voicemails unless a call is important, so voicemails are slightly more important, but less urgent, than incoming phonecalls. That said, phone calls take more time and effort, and are less practical in jogging and party contexts, but may be worth grabbing more attention than voicemails in transit and lecture contexts if the content of said call is very urgent. Texts are immediate forms of communication that are slightly less urgent than phone calls, but more urgent than emails, and emails are slightly more urgent than tweets. All in all, users are most interruptible in public transit contexts, less interruptible while jogging, even less interruptible while in parties, and the least interruptible when lecturing. In terms of resource allotment, users have the most resources to dedicate when in public transit, less when at parties, less still when jogging, and the least when lecturing.
One detailed scenario to outline the user experience would be the user missing a call and receiving a voicemail at a party: If the user receives a voicemail of any priority less than the highest priority possible, they will likely not want to read it, as the call was likely not important, and the unimportant call did not alert the user. But if the user receives a high-priority voicemail while at a party, it is likely for the best that their attention is grabbed and they step aside to address it quickly.

Twitter = chirp auditory icon
Text = beep earcon
Email = swoosh earcon
MissedCall = ringing auditory icon
VoiceMail = door knocking audio icon
battery/cell service = auditory icon dynamically generated by code

More important events fire more attention-grabbing renditions of their respective notification sounds. Some notifications do not fire auditory events in certain contexts (Low priority texts do not alert user while lecturing).